Director: Stand by and action
Linda: There’s no doubt about it both awareness
and understanding of dementia has increased
tremendously but the problem Alzheimer’s
Society had had is that people don’t know
about us. They don’t know about what we
offer, they don’t know about the services
that we provide that can really help support
people with dementia.
Nick: I think we wanted to really have the
courage to trouble people and make people
understand just how serious this condition
is. You know we have a gentleman of a certain
age sitting extensively really enjoying a
Sunday lunch with his family and then all
of a sudden he starts to forget who’s around
him and we see that he’s very very troubled
by the experience that he is momentarily suffering.
Then we see him sort of regain his composure
and his faculty and that really is a sort
of metaphor for the help that Alzheimer’s
Society can provide.
Dylan: Our main aim was just to try and put
the viewer in that world and kind of create
the sense of disorientation and confusion
that people with Alzheimer’s have to live
with sometimes. We wanted it to feel very
real we, we wanted them to be characters that
people would recognise. When we cast we asked
everyone who came in if they had any family
or loved ones or other personal experience
of Alzheimer’s and it really showed in the
performances when they had and Ray in particular
just you know was very nuanced and it just
seemed very very authentic watching him, so
we were keen for that to be part of it.
Ray: Yeah my father had dementia and as a
family we looked after him for five years
but with retrospect he had it for longer than
five years because we didn’t recognise his
behaviour at first. Much the same way that
this character around the dining room table,
he’s got his family around him and starts
doing things which are out of character, so
it was very important not to caricature and
to make it as real as possible.
Leo: I was particularly drawn to his project
for personal reasons my grandfather died of
Alzheimer’s and I have a very good memory
of the last few years of his life. I actually
recall, remember very clearly the kind of
look in his eye which Ray the actor portrayed.
Hopefully I was able to help recognise some
of these moments and help portray the subjective
experience that Will and Dylan were trying
to create.
Dylan: We just wanted people to kind of empathise
rather than sympathise, we wanted to make
a film that you know went some way to helping
people understand what it must be like but
also that lets families know and carers know
that there is support there.